# llcomputing

## Network booting the linux kernel image for the cluster

Use a TFTP/proxyDHCP boot to search the network for a kernel image to load the operating system.

## Dependencies
- VirtualBox: https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads
- Debian9: http://cdimage.debian.org/cdimage/weekly-builds/amd64/iso-cd/

## Guide
- spin up debian/ubuntu virtualbox from an x86 host computer (OS X)
- Install gcc arm compiler: `sudo apt install gcc-arm-linux-gnueabihf`
- Set `ARCH` varaible: `export ARCH=arm`
- Set `CROSS_COMPILE` variable: `export CROSS_COMPILE=arm-linux-gnueabihf-`
- Clone the `u-boot` repository: `git clone git://git.denx.de/u-boot.git`
- Change directories: `cd u-boot`
- Set the configuration parameters before compilation: `make rpi_2_defconfig`
- Install `bc`: `sudo apt-get install bc`
- Compile: `make all`
- Route the bluetooth chip to the mini-uart via `echo 'dtoverlay=pi3-miniuart-bt' >> config.txt` 
-	Copy/paste `u-boot.bin` on the `/boot` partition of the SD card, and change `config.txt` to say: `kernel=u-boot.bin`


## Set up a TFTP server

Set up a TFTP server to server the kernel image

- `sudo apt-get install tftpd-hpa`
- `echo 'TFTP_USERNAME="tftp" \`
		`TFTP_DIRECTORY="/srv/tftp" \` 
		`TFTP_ADDRESS="0.0.0.0:69" \`
		`TFTP_OPTIONS="--secure"' > /etc/default/tftpd-hpa`
- `mv ~/kernel7.img /srv/tftp/kernel7.img`

Now test it:
- `tftp localhost`
- `tftp > get kernel7.img`
- `999 bytes transfered OK`


- http://processors.wiki.ti.com/index.php/Booting_Linux_kernel_using_U-Boot

## Set up a DHCP server
- `sudo apt-get install dnsmasq`
- `sudo -s; cd /etc/dnsmasq.d/ ; touch uboot.conf`
		# Sample configuration for dnsmasq to function as a proxyDHCP server,
		# enabling LTSP clients to boot when an external, unmodifiable DHCP
		# server is present.
		# The main dnsmasq configuration is in /etc/dnsmasq.conf;
		# the contents of this script are added to the main configuration.
		# You may modify the file to suit your needs.

		# Don't function as a DNS server:
		port=0

		# Log lots of extra information about DHCP transactions.
		log-dhcp

		# Set the root directory for files available via FTP.
		tftp-root=/srv/tftp

		# The boot filename.
		dhcp-boot=kernel7.img

		# rootpath option
		#dhcp-option=17,/images

		# kill multicast
		#dhcp-option=vendor:PXEClient,6,2b

		# Disable re-use of the DHCP servername and filename fields as extra
		# option space. That's to avoid confusing some old or broken DHCP clients.
		dhcp-no-override

		# This range(s) is for the public interface, where dnsmasq functions
		# as a proxy DHCP server providing boot information but no IP leases.
		# Any ip in the subnet will do, so you may just put your server NIC ip here.
		# Since dnsmasq is not providing true DHCP services, you do not want it
		# handing out IP addresses.  Just put your servers IP address for the interface
		# that is connected to the network on which the FOG clients exist.
		# If this setting is incorrect, the dnsmasq may not start, rendering
		# your proxyDHCP ineffective.
		dhcp-range=192.168.1.149,proxy

### or

`/etc/dhcpd/dhcpd.conf`

		subnet 192.168.1.0 netmask 255.255.255.0 {
		  option routers          192.168.1.1;
		  option subnet-mask      255.255.255.0;

		  host trgt {   
		    hardware ethernet       B8:27:EB:E3:DA:2F;
		    fixed-address           192.168.1.149;
		    option host-name        "rspi2";
		    filename                "/srv/tftp/kernel7.img";
		  } 
		} 

`/etc/defaults/dhcp`

		DHCPD_CONF=/etc/dhcp/dhcpd.conf
		INTERFACES="eth0"

## Create two files to set environment variables and script the bootload process
### For a SD card boot
- `echo 'setenv fdtfile bcm2710-rpi-3-b.dtb' >> uenv.txt`
- `echo 'dev mcc 0 \`
		`fatload mmc 0:1 ${kernel_addr_r} kernel7.img \`
		`fatload mmc 0:1 ${fdt_addr_r} bcm2710-rpi-3-b.dtb \`
		`setenv bootargs earlyprintk dwc_otg.lpm_enable=0 console=ttyAMA0,115200 console=tty1 root=/dev/mmcblk0p2 rootfstype=ext4 elevator=noop noinitrd rw rootwait \`
		`bootz ${kernel_addr_r} - ${fdt_addr_r} \`
		`' >> boot.scr.source`
- `mkimage -A arm -O linux -T script -C none -n boot.scr -d boot.scr boot.scr.source`
- place `uEnv.txt` and `boot.scr` on the SD card

## For a network boot:
`uEnv.txt` looks like this:
		setenv fdtfile bcm2710-rpi-3-b.dtb
		setenv serverip 192.168.1.149
		setenv ip_addr 192.168.1.111
		setenv bootargs earlyprintk dwc_otg.lpm_enable=0 console=ttyAMA0,115200 console=tty1 root=/dev/mmcblk0p2 rootfstype=ext4 rw rootwait selinux=0 plymouth.enable=0 smsc95xx.turbo_mode=N dwc_otg.lpm_enable=0 kgdboc=ttyAMA0,115200 elevator=noop noinitrd
(note - make sure 192.168.1.149 is the TFTP server, and 192.168.1.111 is the client IP)

`boot.scr.uimg` looks like this:
		usb start
		tftp ${fdt_addr_r} ${fdtfile}
		tftp ${kernel_addr_r} kernel7.img
		bootz ${kernel_addr_r} - ${fdt_addr_r}
- `mkimage -A arm -O linux -T script -C none -n boot.scr -d boot.scr boot.scr.source`
- place `uEnv.txt` and `boot.scr` on the SD card


